Added: Kotlin Math abs function✨ (#3770)
Codecademy/docs: content/kotlin/concepts/math-methods/terms/abs/abs.md

---
Title: '.abs()'
Description: 'Returns the absolute value of the argument.'
Subjects:

>   - 'Computer Science'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - 'Computer Science'
  - 'Code Foundations'
```

Tags:
  - 'Methods'
  - 'Arithmetic'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-kotlin'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
---

## Description

> The `.abs()` method in Kotlin's Math library is used to calculate the absolute value of a numeric expression. The absolute value is the non-negative value of a number, effectively removing its negative sign, if present.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **`.abs()`** method in Kotlin's Math library is used to calculate the absolute value of a numeric expression. The absolute value is the non-negative value of a number, effectively removing its negative sign, if present.
```

## Syntax

```pseudo
Math.abs(n)
```

`n`: A numeric expression (e.g., `Int`, `Long`, `Double`, `Float`, etc.) for which you want to calculate the absolute value. The method takes the numeric expression n as its argument and returns the absolute value, ensuring that the result is always a non-negative value.

## Example 

```kotlin

> import kotlin.math.abs
> 
> fun main() {
>     val x = -6.5
>     val y = 2
>     val z = -340.8
> 
>     val absoluteX = abs(x)
>     val absoluteY = abs(y)
>     val absoluteZ = abs(z)
> 
>     println("Absolute value of x: $absoluteX")
>     println("Absolute value of y: $absoluteY")
>     println("Absolute value of z: $absoluteZ")
> }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
import kotlin.math.abs

fun main() {
  val x = -6.5
  val y = 2
  val z = -340.8

  val absoluteX = abs(x)
  val absoluteY = abs(y)
  val absoluteZ = abs(z)
  println("Absolute value of x: $absoluteX")
  println("Absolute value of y: $absoluteY")
  println("Absolute value of z: $absoluteZ")
}
```

```

> In this example, the **`abs`** function is imported from the `kotlin.math` library and employed to calculate the absolute values of different numeric expressions. The results are subsequently printed to the console. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this example, the `abs` function is imported from the `kotlin.math` library and employed to calculate the absolute values of different numeric expressions. The results are subsequently printed to the console. 
```

The output of this code will be:

```shell
Absolute value of x: 6.5
Absolute value of y: 2
Absolute value of z: 340.8
```

> The **`.abs()`** method is notably useful when ensuring that a value is treated as positive, irrespective of its original sign.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Note**: The `.abs()` method is notably useful when ensuring that a value is treated as positive, irrespective of its original sign.
```

---
Title: '.abs()'
Description: 'Returns the absolute value of the argument.'
Subjects:
  - 'Computer Science'
Tags:
  - 'Methods'
  - 'Arithmetic'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-kotlin'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
---

## Description

The `.abs()` method in Kotlin's Math library is used to calculate the absolute value of a numeric expression. The absolute value is the non-negative value of a number, effectively removing its negative sign, if present.

> ### Syntax

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Syntax
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

```pseudo
Math.abs(n)
```

> `n`: A numeric expression (e.g., `Int`, `Long`, `Double`, `Float`, etc.) for which you want to calculate the absolute value.
> 
> The method takes the numeric expression n as its argument and returns the absolute value, ensuring that the result is always a non-negative value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`n`: A numeric expression (e.g., `Int`, `Long`, `Double`, `Float`, etc.) for which you want to calculate the absolute value.

The method takes the numeric expression n as its argument and returns the absolute value, ensuring that the result is always a non-negative value.
```
```suggestion
`n`: A numeric expression (e.g., `Int`, `Long`, `Double`, `Float`, etc.) for which you want to calculate the absolute value.

The method takes the numeric expression n as its argument and returns the absolute value, ensuring that the result is always a non-negative value.
```
```suggestion
`n`: A numeric expression (e.g., `Int`, `Long`, `Double`, `Float`, etc.) for which you want to calculate the absolute value. The method takes the numeric expression n as its argument and returns the absolute value, ensuring that the result is always a non-negative value.
```
There is no need to leave space here.

> ### Example 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Example 
```

```kotlin
import kotlin.math.abs

fun main() {
    val x = -6.5
    val y = 2
    val z = -340.8

    val absoluteX = abs(x)
    val absoluteY = abs(y)
    val absoluteZ = abs(z)

    println("Absolute value of x: $absoluteX")
    println("Absolute value of y: $absoluteY")
    println("Absolute value of z: $absoluteZ")
}
```

> In this example, we import the abs function from the `kotlin.math` library and use it to calculate the absolute values of various numeric expressions. The results are then printed to the console.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this example, the **`abs`** function is imported from the `kotlin.math` library and employed to calculate the absolute values of different numeric expressions. The results are subsequently printed to the console. 
```
Refrain from using pronouns

> The output of this code will be:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The output of this code will be:

```
adding a line after this

```shell
Absolute value of x: 6.5
Absolute value of y: 2
Absolute value of z: 340.8
```

> The .abs() method is particularly useful when you need to ensure that a value is treated as positive, regardless of its original sign.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **`.abs()`** method is notably useful when ensuring that a value is treated as positive, irrespective of its original sign.
```
Refrain from using pronouns.

> The .abs() method is particularly useful when you need to ensure that a value is treated as positive, regardless of its original sign.

Reviewer: You can add a working codebyte after this. Try to keep the code different from above example.
